This article is from 2015. I would say
it is right on the money. Data was the
next big thing in content marketing. I
bet a ton of you are doing it. I I do
plenty of it. Sparro does lots of it.
Look, if you are using data in your
content marketing and you're wondering
as some people who emailed me recently
and are are like, "Hey, Rand, why isn't
my data working in content?" It has to
do, I think, one of two things to really
be a big kind of media hit. Whether
we're talking about big picture media,
big prestigious outlets, or small media,
it has to either take a prevailing
narrative like like this one. Um, AI is
taking everyone's job or AI is going to
take all the young people's job, remove
job opportunities. And you see tons and
tons of articles. Oh my god, there's so
many. It has to either support the
prevailing narrative by providing data
as evidence or run counter to the
prevailing narrative. Look, uh, here's
the Financial Times doing both at the
same time. There's a prevailing
narrative about men underperforming
women in modern economies, societies,
whatever, dating culture, job
opportunities, etc., etc. And here they
are supporting that narrative by
breaking out by gender, the rates of
unemployment among non-olsds and college
grads and showing that women who
graduate from college are having more
success in the workplace than men who
graduate from college, etc. So
supporting it and this graph got quoted
all over by all sorts of people who want
to make that narrative prevailing
including lots of problematic people as
you might imagine. And then they have a
graph also analyzing you know the same
US employment data and showing counter
narrative information. Look at this.
This is in red is recent grads in
technology. So, this is like software
engineering and coding and and computer
science, all that kind of stuff. And of
course, if you go and look at all of
these uh things, it's like, oh yeah,
they're taking tech jobs. They're taking
away entrylevel computer science,
computer engineering, coding jobs from
college graduates. And yet, the US
employment data shows exactly the
opposite. that since the start of this
year uh maybe even December recent grads
in tech have outperformed recent grads
in all other sectors and of course this
doesn't jive very well with this because
men are overwhelmingly the computer
science and tech graduates uh coming out
of US colleges at least as a percentage
so hey what what's happening the reason
these two graphs are so successful is
because one supports a narrative that
some people want to tell and The other
one runs counter to a narrative that is
being told in the popular culture and
media, you know, around AI hype. And I
find both of them fascinating and a
great content marketing lesson to be had